A Reproducible Local-Ratio and SCC-Reﬁnement
Framework
for Weighted Ordering in Directed Graphs

Abstract
Weighted directed graphs model precedence conﬂicts, cyclic dependencies,
and pairwise ordering data in engineering and decision systems. This paper studies the minimum weighted feedback arc set problem on nonnegative weighted directed graphs, equivalently the problem of ﬁnding an ordering with minimum total backward edge weight. We present a reproducible heuristic framework that combines an engineered local-ratio cyclereduction method with topological add-back, a weighted seed construction,
and incumbent-protected reﬁnement over strongly connected components.
The reﬁnement improves local cyclic substructures while preserving a nonworsening invariant relative to the best seed solution.
The computational study combines sparse public graph benchmarks, an
ablation study, exact validation on small instances, external baseline comparisons, and a dense linear-ordering transfer test. On the exact-validation
subset, where bitmask dynamic programming certiﬁes optima, the proposed
reﬁnement matches the optimum on 56 of 57 standard instances, with a
mean relative gap of about 0.0006 percent. On 97 standard nonnegative
sparse benchmark instances, it attains the best observed backward weight
among the tested methods on 96 instances and outperforms all tested baselines, including the strongest external heuristic. For instances outside the
exact-validation subset, “best” refers to the minimum backward weight observed among the compared algorithms, not a proof of optimality. Dense
LOLIB instances are analyzed separately as a transfer regime; a matrix-based
pairwise-ordering external method is stronger on that benchmark, while the
proposed framework remains a general weighted-digraph heuristic.
Keywords: Minimum weighted feedback arc set, weighted ordering,
local-ratio algorithm, strongly connected components, incumbent-protected
reﬁnement, linear ordering problem, computational heuristics

1. Introduction
Many engineering and decision systems require a linear order to be extracted from directed, weighted, and internally inconsistent information. A
precedence graph may encode that task u should precede task v, that a circuit signal should be routed before a dependent component is evaluated, that
a package should be installed before another package can be conﬁgured, or
that an alternative is preferred to another alternative in paired-comparison
data. Rank aggregation from inconsistent pairwise information is a standard
motivation for ordering heuristics Ailon et al. (2008). In practice these directed relations are often cyclic. Cycles can arise from noisy measurements,
conﬂicting expert judgments, reciprocal dependencies, approximate model
reductions, or competing design objectives. A useful ordering method must
therefore decide which directed constraints to respect and which constraints
to place backward in the ﬁnal order. When arcs carry weights, the backward
constraints are not interchangeable: violating a high-weight precedence relation should be more costly than violating a weak or noisy relation. This
leads naturally to the minimum weighted feedback arc set (MWFAS) problem, a weighted ordering problem on directed graphs with direct relevance to
cyclic-dependency resolution, ranking, scheduling, and other computational
decision workﬂows in industrial engineering.
Informally, the minimum weighted feedback arc set problem asks for a
minimum-weight set of arcs whose removal makes a directed graph acyclic.
Equivalently, it asks for a vertex ordering that minimizes the total weight of
arcs directed backward with respect to that order. The unweighted problem
is NP-hard in general Karp (1972), and weighted variants have a long heuristic and exact-method literature Flood (1990); Baharev et al. (2021). Exact
methods are practical only for small instances or special structures. Naive
score heuristics can be very fast, but they may ignore local cyclic structure;
random multistart heuristics can provide a broad baseline, but they do not
exploit graph decomposition; and specialized dense-ordering solvers may perform well on complete pairwise-comparison instances while being less directly
aligned with sparse, irregular directed graphs. The computational question
addressed here is not whether one heuristic dominates every possible ordering instance. Instead, it is whether a carefully engineered and reproducible
framework can deliver strong performance on nonnegative sparse weighted
2

digraphs while making its scope limits explicit.
The local-ratio perspective is an important starting point for feedback
arc set heuristics and approximation-oriented reasoning. We do not claim
local-ratio as new. Broader local-ratio foundations appear in Bar-Yehuda
et al. (1998), and directed feedback problems were treated algorithmically in
Demetrescu and Finocchi (2003). The contribution in this paper is algorithmengineering rather than a new approximation theorem: we study a reproducible local-ratio cycle-reduction implementation that records cycle-removal
decisions, reconstructs an acyclic topological order, and then performs a topological add-back phase to recover arcs whenever doing so does not reintroduce cyclicity. This method is referred to as local-ratio topological add-back
(LR-TA) after the components are deﬁned in Section 4. The emphasis is on
deterministic data handling, measurable component eﬀects, and integration
with a reﬁnement stage that is evaluated against exact and external baselines.
The integrated framework combines three components. First, the localratio topological add-back procedure produces a feasible ordering from
weighted cycle reductions and a reconstruction step. Second, a WMSF-style
weighted seed construction provides a complementary initial ordering and
internal baseline. Third, incumbent-protected reﬁnement searches within
strongly connected components (SCCs). We refer to this reﬁnement as
incumbent-protected SCC neighborhood search (IPSNS). IPSNS updates
the incumbent only when a candidate ordering has strictly smaller backward
weight. This protection gives a simple invariant: the ﬁnal solution cannot be
worse than the best internal seed under the same objective and nonnegativeweight assumptions. The invariant is not an approximation guarantee, but
it prevents reﬁnement from degrading the seed and makes the local search
behavior traceable instance by instance.
The computational study is organized around ﬁve evidence streams. The
main sparse benchmark evaluates public weighted directed graph instances
derived from graph-benchmark collections, with negative-weight instances
separated from the standard nonnegative comparisons. An ablation study
isolates the eﬀect of the topological add-back phase, the use of the best
seed, the incumbent-protected reﬁnement, and the SCC-priority choice on a
representative subset. An exact small-instance validation compares heuristic orderings against a bitmask dynamic-programming optimum where exact
optimization is feasible. A sparse external-baseline study compares the proposed framework with the open-source DRMacIver/FAS heuristic, the Eades
heuristic as implemented in python-igraph, a weighted adaptation of Eades
3

et al. Eades et al. (1993), a Borda net-score ordering, and random multistart. Finally, a dense transfer study evaluates whether the framework
carries over to complete weighted linear-ordering instances from the Linear
Ordering Problem Library (LOLIB).
The results support a deliberately bounded claim. On 105 sparse benchmark instances, the incumbent-protected reﬁnement has no incumbent violations relative to either internal seed. In the ablation study, the add-back
phase reduces mean backward weight by 5.9 percent relative to local-ratio
without add-back, and the reﬁnement gives an additional 0.75 percent mean
reduction on the tested subset. On the exact-validation subset of 57 standard
nonnegative instances with n ≤ 20, the reﬁnement matches the dynamicprogramming optimum on 56 instances, with mean relative gap about 0.0006
percent. On 97 standard nonnegative sparse instances in the external comparison, it achieves the best observed backward weight among the tested
methods on 96 instances; the strongest external baseline, DRMacIver, is
about 21.6 percent worse in mean backward weight on this sparse benchmark. These numbers support strong performance on sparse nonnegative
weighted digraphs, but they do not support a universal dominance claim.
The dense LOLIB study is reported as a scope boundary rather than
as primary evidence. LOLIB instances are complete weighted ordering instances, closely related to the linear ordering problem and structurally different from the sparse directed graphs that motivate the framework. On
50 dense LOLIB instances, the matrix-based pairwise-ordering baseline DRMacIver/FAS obtains the best observed solution on 45 instances, while the
proposed reﬁnement is best on 5 instances and has about 3.88 percent higher
mean backward weight. This outcome is consistent with the structural distinction: SCC-local reﬁnement is useful when sparse cyclic subgraphs provide meaningful neighborhoods, whereas dense complete ordering instances
favor matrix-based pairwise-ordering heuristics. The method is therefore positioned as a reproducible general weighted-digraph framework with strong
sparse performance and an explicitly documented dense-ordering limitation.
The contributions of this paper are as follows:
• We present an engineered local-ratio topological add-back heuristic for
nonnegative weighted feedback arc set instances, separating inherited
local-ratio ideas from the implementation and add-back choices studied
here.
• We introduce incumbent-protected SCC neighborhood reﬁnement, a
4

local-search framework that preserves non-worsening relative to the
best internal seed and can be checked for incumbent violations.
• We provide a multi-part computational evaluation covering sparse public benchmarks, component ablation, exact small-instance validation,
external sparse baselines, and dense LOLIB transfer testing.
• We state explicit claim boundaries for negative-weight exclusions, dense
linear-ordering instances, weighted Eades adaptation, reproducibility,
and the absence of a new approximation guarantee.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 reviews
feedback arc set heuristics, local-ratio methods, ordering heuristics, exact
methods, and linear-ordering benchmarks. Section 3 deﬁnes the minimum
weighted feedback arc set objective, the ordering-induced backward weight,
and the relation to dense linear-ordering notation. Section 4 describes
the local-ratio topological add-back procedure, the weighted seed, and the
incumbent-protected SCC reﬁnement. Section 5 presents datasets, baselines,
metrics, and reproducibility controls. Section 6 summarizes the computational results. Section 7 discusses limitations, including the dense LOLIB
boundary, and Section 8 concludes.
2. Related work
2.1. Feedback arc set and local-ratio methods
The feedback arc set problem and its weighted variants sit at the intersection of graph optimization, ordering, and ranking. In directed graphs, the
problem can be phrased either as deleting a minimum-weight set of arcs to
obtain an acyclic graph or as ﬁnding an ordering with minimum backward
weight. That equivalence makes the problem relevant both to graph-theoretic
cycle breaking and to applications that begin from pairwise precedence or
preference data. Classical digraph formulations identiﬁed minimum feedback arc sets as a central cyclic-structure question Lempel and Cederbaum
(1966), early weighted treatments framed the problem as an ordering objective Flood (1990), and the general decision problem is computationally hard
Karp (1972). The approximation literature is broader for vertex-deletion or
undirected variants than for the weighted directed setting considered here,
but it still provides important methodological context. Even et al. (1998)
study approximation algorithms for minimum feedback sets and multicuts
5

in directed graphs, while Hecht et al. (2021) analyze tight localizations of
feedback sets in more recent algorithm-engineering work. In particular, BarYehuda et al. (1998) place local-ratio reasoning in a general approximation
framework, showing how weighted combinatorial objectives can be decomposed while preserving feasible improvement structure. Their setting is not
the same as minimum weighted feedback arc set on directed graphs, and we
do not rely on their theorem to obtain a new approximation guarantee here.
However, the paper is directly relevant to the design logic of iterative weight
reductions on conﬂict structures.
For directed feedback problems, Demetrescu and Finocchi (2003) provide
the closest methodological antecedent to the cycle-reduction component used
here. Their contribution is important for two reasons. First, it treats directed
feedback problems algorithmically rather than only as ordering formulations.
Second, it shows how local-ratio reductions can be applied to directed cycles
in a way that is compatible with practical heuristics. The local-ratio step
in the present work is inherited in spirit from that line of research: when a
directed cycle is found, all arcs on the cycle are reduced by the minimum
weight on the cycle, at least one arc becomes tight, and the active graph
is simpliﬁed. What is new here is not the local-ratio principle itself, but an
engineered sparse-graph implementation that records removed arcs explicitly,
reconstructs a deterministic topological order once the active graph becomes
acyclic, and then runs a heavy-ﬁrst add-back step to reduce unnecessary
deletions.
The contribution is therefore best understood as an algorithm-engineering
framework built around a known reduction principle. The emphasis is on
deterministic data handling, compatibility with sparse weighted digraphs,
and integration with a second-stage reﬁnement process that improves only
when the global objective decreases.
2.2. Heuristics and software baselines
Heuristic work on feedback arc set and related ordering tasks spans greedy
graph rules, local search, and software packages that expose ordering or arcdeletion primitives. A classical baseline is the greedy heuristic of Eades
et al. (1993). Their method is attractive because it is fast, interpretable, and
structurally simple: it repeatedly extracts sources, sinks, or high net-score
vertices to construct an order. An earlier denser-graph variant in the same
heuristic family appears in Eades and Lin (1995). Even when a modern

6

study ultimately outperforms such a heuristic, it remains an essential reference point because many later practical systems either implement that rule
directly or build on the same score-based intuition. In the present paper,
Eades-style ideas appear in two places: as the historical baseline that motivates fast greedy ordering, and as the conceptual starting point for external
and adapted software baselines used in the experiments.
The external-baseline design intentionally mixes library-grade and
specialized open-source tools.
The python-igraph documentation for
Graph.feedback_arc_set python-igraph developers (2026) exposes both
an Eades-style heuristic and exact integer-programming modes. It is a
useful baseline because it reﬂects what a practitioner could call from a
general-purpose graph library. In contrast, the DRMacIver/FAS tool DRMacIver (2026) is a matrix-based pairwise-ordering heuristic rather than a
general graph-analysis package. Its documentation formulates the input as
a nonnegative n × n matrix W , where Wij represents evidence that item i
should precede
item j, and seeks a permutation maximizing the total forward
∑
weight
pi <pj Wij . The repository describes the method as deterministic
and reports a local-optimality property with respect to single-element moves;
it does not present the tool as an exact optimizer. Because the documented
model is matrix-based and has O(n2 ) complexity in the number of items, it
is especially natural as a dense pairwise-ordering baseline, while remaining
usable in our experiments through the sparse entry-list interface. Empirically, it is the strongest external baseline on the sparse standard benchmark
and the dominant method on the dense LOLIB transfer test.
The remaining baselines in the experiments are deliberately simple and
interpretable. Weighted net-score ordering and random multistart are not
intended to represent state of the art; they provide calibration points. Netscore and win-based tournament rules are classical ranking ideas with theoretical support in the weighted tournament literature Coppersmith et al. (2010).
The weighted Eades adaptation used here should also be interpreted carefully.
The original Eades–Lin–Smyth paper Eades et al. (1993) does not deﬁne the
weighted adaptation used in this study, so that baseline is described as a local
adaptation rather than as the original authors’ algorithm. That distinction
is part of the methodological hygiene of the study: external baselines should
be credited as external when they are external, and local adaptations should
be labeled as such even when they are inspired by well-known methods.
There is a broader family of learning-based ranking methods that could
be discussed without entering the experimental comparison set. GNNRank
7

He et al. (2022), for example, frames ranking from pairwise comparisons as
a trainable graph-neural ranking problem. It is relevant as a signal that the
ranking literature has moved beyond purely combinatorial heuristics, but it
is not used as a baseline here because the present study focuses on deterministic, training-free graph heuristics rather than learned ranking models.
Recent weighted feedback arc set heuristics such as the minimal-and-stable
construction of Cavallaro and Cutello Cavallaro and Cutello (2025) are likewise outside the comparison set because they were not rerun for this study,
but they illustrate continued heuristic interest in weighted feedback arc deletion.
2.3. Exact methods and ordering formulations
The exact side of the literature serves two diﬀerent roles in this paper.
First, it sets expectations about computational hardness. Second, it provides
the reference standard for the small-instance validation experiment. Baharev
et al. (2021) give a modern exact treatment of minimum feedback arc set
through formulations that connect the problem to broader combinatorial
optimization machinery. Their work is not the computational baseline for
the full sparse benchmark in this paper; the sparse benchmark is too large for
exact optimization to be the main comparison mode. Instead, exact methods
enter the study through a limited validation regime on small instances, where
the question is not whether exact optimization scales globally, but whether
the heuristic framework is near-optimal when exact answers are available.
This distinction also helps separate feedback arc set from the larger family
of ordering models. Dense linear ordering formulations are often written as
forward-weight maximization on complete matrices, whereas sparse directed
graph formulations arise more naturally as backward-weight minimization on
incomplete digraphs. The two are mathematically linked, but they are not
computationally identical in practice.
The present study deliberately moves between the two views. The sparse
benchmark is the main claim-bearing environment and is presented in graph
terms. The LOLIB transfer test is presented in linear-ordering terms because
those instances are dense complete ordering problems. Keeping both formulations visible is important. Otherwise the reader could mistakenly treat good
sparse-graph performance as evidence of dense linear-ordering dominance,
which the experiments do not support.
At larger scales, exact computation is often replaced by decomposition,
approximation, or specialized engineering. Simpson et al. (2016) provide one
8

useful point of reference by treating feedback arc set computation in a webscale setting. Tournament and dense-ordering settings have their own fast
heuristic literature, including local-search methods for weighted tournament
feedback arc set Fomin et al. (2010) and ﬁxed-parameter approaches for the
unweighted tournament case Alon et al. (2009). Their work is not directly
comparable to the exact small-instance validation in this paper, but it illustrates the broader computational reality: scalable feedback arc methods are
usually driven by structure, heuristics, or deployment constraints rather than
by globally exact optimization. The goal here is not to displace exact methods; it is to present a heuristic framework whose computational behavior is
strong on the sparse benchmark and whose limitations on dense complete
ordering instances are reported explicitly.
2.4. Linear ordering benchmarks and positioning
The dense-transfer side of the paper is best understood through the linear
ordering literature. Marti et al. (2012) provide a benchmark-oriented account
of the Linear Ordering Problem Library (LOLIB) and its heuristic evaluation
culture. That paper is the most appropriate formal reference for LOLIBstyle benchmark usage here because it anchors the library in a published
benchmark-comparison setting rather than only as a download page. The
oﬃcial LOLIB page itself Marti (2010) remains important for provenance and
dataset identiﬁcation, especially because benchmark users often obtain the
instances directly from library pages or their mirrors. Together, these sources
explain why dense complete tournaments have a diﬀerent methodological
status from sparse DIMACS-style directed graphs: they are not merely larger
graphs of the same type, but instances drawn from a diﬀerent benchmark
tradition with diﬀerent algorithmic expectations.
The sparse benchmark side has a diﬀerent provenance. The graphbenchmarks collection Ali Dasdan (2026) is a public set of directed instances
in DIMACS-style format rather than a linear-ordering library.
That diﬀerence supports a central design choice: the sparse and dense
benchmarks test diﬀerent claims. The sparse benchmark is the main evidence
for practical value on nonnegative weighted digraphs. The dense benchmark
is a transfer test used to determine where a general weighted-digraph heuristic
stops being competitive against dense-ordering-native methods.
The ranking-from-pairwise-comparisons viewpoint connects these benchmark families conceptually. In dense complete settings, every ordered pair

9

carries evidence, so forward-weight maximization aligns naturally with tournament and ranking formulations Ailon et al. (2008); Coppersmith et al.
(2010). In sparse settings, many pairwise relations are absent, heterogeneous, or structurally constrained by applications such as dependency repair
or precedence resolution.
This is exactly why a method that performs well on sparse graphbenchmarks may still lose on LOLIB. The issue is not inconsistency in the
experiments; it is a change in problem structure. Related work therefore has
to prepare the reader for a comparative message that is strong but bounded.
This paper occupies a speciﬁc position in the literature. It is not a
new approximation-theory paper in the style of local-ratio foundations BarYehuda et al. (1998) or directed-feedback algorithm design Demetrescu and
Finocchi (2003); Even et al. (1998). It is not an exact-method paper in the
style of Baharev et al. (2021). It is not a web-scale systems paper in the style
of Simpson et al. (2016). It is also not a dense linear-ordering or trainable
ranking paper in the style of the LOLIB benchmark tradition Marti et al.
(2012), tournament local search Fomin et al. (2010), or graph-neural ranking
work such as GNNRank He et al. (2022). Instead, it is an integrated computational heuristic study whose main object is a reproducible framework for
nonnegative weighted directed graphs.
That framework combines three roles that are often separated in the
literature: a cycle-reduction seed grounded in prior local-ratio ideas, a complementary weighted seed, and incumbent-protected SCC neighborhood reﬁnement. IPSNS is the main algorithmic contribution beyond the engineered
LR-TA seed. It concentrates search on strongly connected components with
positive backward contribution, applies SCC-local destroy-and-repair moves
with restricted local-ratio repair, and accepts a candidate only when the
global backward weight strictly decreases. The practical signiﬁcance of that
combination is twofold. First, it gives a transparent explanation for why
the method should be robust on sparse directed graphs: the initial seeds
construct feasible orders in diﬀerent ways, and the reﬁnement concentrates
eﬀort on strongly connected regions where ordering uncertainty remains. Second, it yields a claim that is strong enough to matter and narrow enough
to defend: the framework is highly eﬀective on the main sparse benchmark,
near-optimal on the exact-validation subset, and explicitly limited on dense
LOLIB instances where the external matrix-based pairwise-ordering baseline
is stronger.

10

3. Problem deﬁnition
Let G = (V, A, w) be a directed graph with vertex set V , arc set A ⊆
V × V , and nonnegative arc weights w : A → R≥0 . A feedback arc set is a
set F ⊆ A such that removing F makes the graph acyclic. The minimum
weighted feedback arc set problem
asks for a minimum-weight feedback arc
∑
set, i.e., a set F minimizing a∈F w(a).
An ordering π assigns each vertex a distinct position. An arc (u, v) is
backward under π if u appears after v. The ordering-induced backward
weight is
∑
bw(π) =
w(u, v).
(1)
(u,v)∈A: π(u)>π(v)

For any ordering π, the set of backward arcs is a feedback arc set: all
remaining forward arcs point from earlier to later positions and therefore form
an acyclic graph. Conversely, every acyclic subgraph admits a topological
order. The weighted feedback arc set problem can therefore be treated as
the problem of ﬁnding an ordering with minimum backward weight Flood
(1990); Karp (1972).
Dense linear ordering problem benchmarks are often stated in terms of a
complete weight matrix C, where an ordering π = (π1 , . . . , πn ) is evaluated
by the forward weight. In that notation,
fwC (π) =

∑

Cπi ,πj ,

bwC (π) =

1≤i<j≤n

∑

Cπj ,πi = WC − fwC (π), (2)

1≤i<j≤n

∑

where WC = i̸=j Cij is the total oﬀ-diagonal weight. Thus maximizing
forward weight on a complete dense linear-ordering instance is equivalent
to minimizing backward weight after converting the matrix to a complete
weighted digraph. LOLIB results are reported as a transfer test. Those
instances are dense complete ordering problems rather than sparse directed
graph benchmarks.
4. Proposed methodology
The framework combines three layers: a local-ratio topological add-back
seed, a complementary weighted seed, and an incumbent-protected reﬁnement over strongly connected components. Figure 1 summarizes the data
11

Table 1: Algorithm components and their roles in the framework.

Component

Primary mechanism

Role in this paper

LR-TA

Global local-ratio
cycle reduction
followed by
heavy-ﬁrst add-back
Ordered arc removal,
minimization,
stabilization, and
remimization inside
SCCs
SCC-local
destroy–repair moves
with restricted
local-ratio repair and
restricted add-back

Engineered reproducible seed;
main constructive method
derived from prior local-ratio
ideas
Complementary internal seed
and baseline; broadens
incumbent quality before
reﬁnement

WMSFstyle
seed

IPSNS

Main reﬁnement framework;
improves only when the global
objective decreases

ﬂow, while Tables 1 and 2 isolate the roles of each component and the invariants that the implementation preserves.
The implementation reads an aggregated weighted DIMACS digraph and
stores it in edge-indexed arrays. Each arc receives an edge identiﬁer together
with ﬁxed endpoint arrays and an activity ﬂag. This design is shared across
LR-TA, WMSF-style seeding, and IPSNS. The common objective is the backward weight deﬁned in Section 3; all moves are evaluated under that objective,
and all determinism claims in this section refer to ﬁxed input graphs and ﬁxed
random seeds.
4.1. Local-ratio topological add-back
LR-TA is the ﬁrst constructive component. It inherits the idea of localratio cycle reduction from the directed-feedback setting of Demetrescu and
Finocchi (2003), but the implementation studied here is an engineered sparsegraph instantiation rather than a new theorem. The algorithm maintains an
active subgraph over the original edge identiﬁers and repeatedly applies two
phases.
In Phase I, the algorithm searches the active graph for any directed cycle
using an iterative depth-ﬁrst search. The search is deterministic because
12

Table 2: Implementation-level invariants preserved by the framework.

Property

Meaning

Acyclic seed
output
Heavy-ﬁrst
add-back

LR-TA and the WMSF-style seed both output an
acyclic active graph that induces a valid ordering.
Reinserted edges are processed in nonincreasing
original weight, so high-weight arcs are given
priority for restoration.
Kahn-style topological reconstruction uses
deterministic tie-breaking, making seed output
reproducible for ﬁxed input.
IPSNS updates the incumbent only when the
candidate backward weight is strictly smaller.
IPSNS SCC selection and destroy fractions are
fully determined by the conﬁgured random seed.

Deterministic
topological
order
Incumbent
protection
Reproducible
randomization

vertices and outgoing edge lists are scanned in ﬁxed order, and only the ﬁrst
detected cycle is used. If C is the detected cycle, LR-TA computes
ε(C) = min w(e)
e∈C

(3)

and reduces the mutable weight of every arc in C by ε(C). At least one
arc becomes tight. Any arc whose reduced weight falls below the numerical
tolerance is deactivated and appended to the removed-edge set FLR . The
phase terminates when no directed cycle remains in the active graph, so the
active subgraph is a directed acyclic graph.
In Phase II, LR-TA attempts to reinsert removed arcs without recreating cyclicity. Removed arcs are processed in nonincreasing order of original
weight, with deterministic tie-breaking on endpoints and edge identiﬁer. Let
π be a topological order of the current active directed acyclic graph and let
rankπ (v) denote the position of vertex v. A candidate arc (u, v) is accepted
immediately if
rankπ (u) < rankπ (v),
(4)
because the current topological order already certiﬁes that the insertion is
forward. Otherwise the algorithm checks whether v can reach u in the current active graph, using a reachability search pruned by the topological rank
interval. The arc is reinserted if and only if no such path exists. Whenever a
13

Algorithm 1 LR-TA seed construction
Require: Weighted digraph G = (V, A, w) with w ≥ 0
Ensure: Ordering πLR , removed-edge set FLR
1: Build edge-indexed arrays (U, V, W0 , W, active, adj)
2: FLR ← ∅
3: while the active graph contains a directed cycle C do
4:
ε ← mine∈C W [e]
5:
for all e ∈ C do
6:
W [e] ← W [e] − ε
7:
if W [e] ≤ τ and e is active then
8:
deactivate e; set W [e] ← 0; add e to FLR
9:
end if
10:
end for
11: end while
12: Compute deterministic topological order π of the active graph
13: for all e = (u, v) ∈ FLR in nonincreasing order of W0 [e] do
14:
if rankπ (u) < rankπ (v) then
15:
reactivate e; remove e from FLR
16:
else if v ̸⇝ u in the current active graph then
17:
reactivate e; remove e from FLR
18:
recompute deterministic topological order π
19:
end if
20: end for
21: return πLR , FLR
backward candidate is accepted, the topological order is recomputed so that
future admissibility tests remain exact. The extracted topological order is
deterministic under the implementation used here, but it is not mathematically unique: diﬀerent linear extensions of the same DAG can exist. The
chosen extraction rule is therefore an engineering convention rather than a
canonical ordering of an acyclic state.
Algorithm 1 summarizes the implementation.
The add-back phase is where this implementation departs most clearly
from a bare local-ratio reduction. It is also the component with the strongest
ablation signal in the current experiments. LR-TA should therefore be understood as a two-phase engineered seed rather than as a one-step local-ratio
routine.
14

4.2. WMSF-style seed construction
The second seed is a weighted removeArcs–minimize–stabilize pipeline implemented locally as an internal baseline. It broadens the seed space available
to the reﬁnement stage and helps deﬁne the incumbent-protection guarantee.
At a high level, the WMSF-style seed decomposes the graph into strongly
connected components and processes each nontrivial component separately.
Within a component, it ﬁrst removes arcs according to a prescribed weightbased ordering. Two orderings are supported in code: L1, which sorts arcs
primarily by weight, and L2, which normalizes arc weight by a weighted
in/out-degree denominator. The resulting removed set is then minimized by
heavy-ﬁrst add-back, followed by a stabilization step and a second minimization pass. When the entire graph is a single nontrivial strongly connected
component, both L1 and L2 are tried and the lower-backward-weight seed is
kept. Otherwise the conﬁgured ordering is used componentwise.
The point of carrying this seed into IPSNS is not to establish a separate
literature claim about WMSF. Instead, it provides a complementary structural bias to LR-TA. LR-TA is driven by cycle reductions in the active graph.
The WMSF-style seed is driven by ordered arc removals and subsequent minimization. Because the two constructions fail diﬀerently on some instances,
taking the better of them before reﬁnement produces a stronger and more
robust incumbent than either seed alone.
IPSNS is the main reﬁnement contribution. It combines SCC-local
destroy-and-repair moves, restricted local-ratio repair, and restricted heavyﬁrst add-back with a strict incumbent-protection rule. Reﬁnement is
therefore concentrated on cyclic regions where ordering uncertainty remains,
while the global objective can only improve or stay unchanged.
4.3. Incumbent-protected SCC-neighborhood search
IPSNS begins by computing both seeds on the full graph: the full WMSFstyle seed and the LR-TA seed. Their backward weights are evaluated under
the common ordering objective, and the better one becomes the initial incumbent. The reﬁnement stage then iterates over strongly connected components
of the original aggregated graph, but the selection is ﬁltered by the incumbent
ordering: only components with positive current backward contribution are
eligible, and a weighted-random choice is drawn from the top-K contributors
by SCC backward weight. This makes the neighborhood search concentrated
rather than exhaustive.

15

Within the chosen component, IPSNS applies a destroy-and-repair move.
The destroy stage has two parts. First, a fraction of currently removed internal edges is reactivated in heavy-ﬁrst order, temporarily giving the neighborhood more freedom. Second, a small fraction of currently active internal
edges is forcibly removed in light-ﬁrst order, encouraging escape from a locally stable order. The repair stage then applies a restricted local-ratio cycle
reduction on that SCC neighborhood and ﬁnishes with restricted heavy-ﬁrst
add-back minimization. All graph edits are conﬁned to the chosen component’s internal edges, while the rest of the incumbent graph remains untouched during the move.
If the repaired candidate fails to admit a valid topological order, the entire SCC-local state is reverted. If the candidate is valid, the full incumbent
objective is recomputed. The incumbent is updated only if the new backward weight is strictly smaller than the current best value. Otherwise the
move is rejected and the previous incumbent is restored exactly. This is
what makes the method incumbent-protected: reﬁnement never commits a
worsening move.
Algorithm 2 summarizes the IPSNS driver.
Two implementation details are especially important for interpretation.
First, the default WMSF seed mode inside IPSNS is the full per-SCC pipeline,
not a weaker legacy approximation; this is required so that the reﬁnement
never starts from a seed weaker than the standalone WMSF baseline. Second,
the randomization in IPSNS is controlled entirely by a ﬁxed seed. The resulting sequence of SCC choices and destroy fractions is therefore reproducible
given the same input and parameter settings. The parameter choices themselves are interpreted conservatively later in the paper: the ablation study
supports them as reasonable defaults on the tested subset, not as universally
optimal settings.
4.4. Algorithmic invariants
The most important invariant in the framework belongs to IPSNS rather
than to LR-TA. Let π (0) denote the better of the two internal seeds and
let π (t) denote the incumbent ordering after t accepted-or-rejected IPSNS
iterations. Because the incumbent is replaced only by a strictly improving
candidate, the sequence satisﬁes
)
(
)
( )
(
for all t ≥ 0.
(5)
bw π (t+1) ≤ bw π (t) ≤ bw π (0)

16

This monotone non-degradation property is not an approximation guarantee,
but it is a concrete algorithmic promise: the ﬁnal IPSNS solution is never
worse than the better internal seed under the same objective and nonnegativeweight assumptions.
LR-TA and the WMSF-style seed have their own feasibility invariants.
LR-TA always exits its reduction stage with an acyclic active graph, and its
add-back phase only reactivates arcs that preserve acyclicity. The WMSFstyle seed similarly alternates removal and minimization steps while checking
acyclic feasibility. IPSNS inherits those feasibility properties locally during
SCC repair and adds the stronger incumbent-protection rule globally. That
combination supports a narrow guarantee about reﬁnement quality without
claiming any new theoretical approximation ratio.
5. Experimental design
The experimental design follows a deliberately narrow claim strategy. The
study does not attempt to demonstrate that one heuristic dominates every
weighted feedback arc set or linear ordering regime. Instead, it evaluates
a reproducible framework for nonnegative weighted directed graphs, using
sparse benchmark instances as the primary setting and dense complete ordering instances as a transfer test.
Five empirical questions motivate the design. The ﬁrst is whether the
full reﬁnement framework improves on its internal seeds without violating
the non-degradation invariant. The second is which components materially
contribute to the ﬁnal solution quality. The third is how close the framework
comes to exact optimization on instances where exact optimization is feasible.
The fourth is how the framework compares with strong internal and external
baselines on the main sparse benchmark. The ﬁfth is how far the sparsebenchmark conclusions transfer to dense complete ordering instances. Table 3
summarizes how the ﬁve computational components are used to answer these
questions.
5.1. Datasets
The study uses two public benchmark families with diﬀerent roles in the
argument.
The primary benchmark family comes from the public graph-benchmarks
collection Ali Dasdan (2026). After path-level deduplication, this yields 105

17

Table 3: Overview of the ﬁve computational components used in the study.
Study

Purpose

Inst. Main setting

Internal
benchmark
Ablation
study
Exact
validation

Safety check for LR-TA, WMSF, and IPSNS

105

Add-back, reﬁnement, and iteration study

10

Comparison with exact bitmask dynamic
programming

57

External baselines on the main benchmark

97

Sparse
comparison

Dense
Scope-boundary analysis on LOLIB instances
transfer test

50

sparse weighted
DIMACS graphs
representative
sparse subset
standard
nonnegative
instances with
n ≤ 20
standard
nonnegative sparse
instances
LOLIB complete
weighted ordering
instances

unique sparse weighted DIMACS digraph instances. These instances support the internal benchmark, the ablation study, the exact small-instance
validation, and the external sparse comparison.
The standard analysis is restricted to the nonnegative-weight subset.
Eight instances are excluded from the standard sparse comparison set
because they contain negative-weight arcs: gerez, howard-max, k3_3, ku,
peterson, peterson1, peterson2, and stg0. This exclusion is methodological rather than cosmetic. The local-ratio construction and the interpretation
of incumbent protection in this study are framed for nonnegative weights,
so mixing negative-weight instances into the main tables would weaken the
meaning of the guarantee. After exclusions, the primary sparse comparison
set contains 97 standard instances.
The exact-validation subset comprises the 57 standard nonnegative benchmark instances with n ≤ 20 included in the bitmask dynamic-programming
study. Negative-weight instances and trivial n = 0 cases are excluded. This
subset is not treated as a separate benchmark family; it is a validation slice
used to judge heuristic quality against certiﬁed optima.
The dense transfer test uses a 50-instance subset of the Linear Ordering
Problem Library (LOLIB) 2010 Marti et al. (2012); Marti (2010). These
instances diﬀer structurally from the sparse benchmark in a way that matters
algorithmically. They are complete weighted ordering instances, and the

18

selected subset spans three families: SGB (25 instances), IO (10 instances),
and RandA1 (15 instances across n = 100, 150, and 200). In the converted
DIMACS representation used in the experiments, every ordered pair carries
weight, so these instances are eﬀectively dense complete tournaments or dense
linear-ordering inputs rather than sparse general digraphs.
This distinction is central to the scope of the study. The sparse benchmark is the main source of positive claims. LOLIB is not treated as coequal
evidence for the primary contribution; it is used to determine where a sparse
weighted-digraph heuristic remains competitive and where a dense-orderingnative ordering method becomes preferable.
5.2. Algorithms and baselines
The evaluation includes the proposed reﬁnement framework, its internal
seed methods, an exact reference method for the small-instance study, and a
set of external or simple baseline heuristics.
The full method of interest is IPSNS, which starts from the better of
two internal seeds and applies incumbent-protected SCC-local reﬁnement.
The two seeds are LR-TA and WMSF. LR-TA is the engineered local-ratio
plus topological add-back construction described in Section 4; WMSF is a
weighted removeArcs–minimize–stabilize seed that is carried forward as a
baseline and seed source.
For the exact small-instance validation, the reference method is exact
bitmask dynamic programming. That solver is not used as a scalable comparator on the full sparse benchmark; its role is only to certify optimality on
the small validation subset.
The sparse and dense comparison studies also include ﬁve additional baselines:
• the DRMacIver/FAS tool DRMacIver (2026), an external deterministic matrix-based ordering heuristic that maximizes forward weight on
pairwise evidence and is evaluated here under the common backwardweight objective;
• python-igraph’s Eades-style feedback arc interface python-igraph developers (2026);
• a weighted Eades adaptation implemented locally and described explicitly as an adaptation rather than as the original Eades et al. (1993)
algorithm;
19

• Borda net-score ordering Coppersmith et al. (2010);
• random multistart ranking.
DRMacIver/FAS is not an exact method. Its matrix-based formulation
makes it a particularly relevant comparator for dense LOLIB instances, which
are complete weighted ordering problems, whereas the sparse benchmark
exercises it only through a sparse entry-list interface.
This baseline mix is deliberate. It does not attempt to exhaust every
recent ranking model or every exact solver. In particular, it does not include a learned model such as GNNRank He et al. (2022), a memetic linearordering solver such as LOP_MA-EDM Carlos Segura (2026), or the recent minimal-and-stable weighted feedback arc set heuristic of Cavallaro and
Cutello Cavallaro and Cutello (2025). Those omissions are stated explicitly.
The intended comparison surface is the ecosystem of deterministic or neardeterministic weighted-digraph heuristics and accessible external tools that
a practitioner could reasonably invoke without building a separate learning
or solver pipeline.
Several fairness rules govern the comparisons. First, all quality comparisons use the same backward-weight objective on the original nonnegative
arc weights. Second, oﬃcial external methods and local adaptations are distinguished explicitly. The weighted Eades method is an adaptation of the
unweighted Eades idea Eades et al. (1993); it is not presented as an oﬃcial
external implementation. Third, DRMacIver/FAS is reported exactly as it
was run in the study. The sparse comparison therefore retains its four incompletions on the standard set, and the dense comparison retains its strong
overall performance. Finally, outcomes are interpreted in scope: losing to
a dense-ordering-native method on dense LOLIB is not treated as evidence
against the sparse-graph claim, and strong sparse performance is not used to
imply dense linear-ordering dominance.
5.3. Evaluation metrics
The primary objective throughout the paper is backward weight (BW),
deﬁned in Section 3. Lower BW is always better, and all main tables are
organized around that quantity.
Several secondary metrics support interpretation. The number of globalbest instances records how often a method attains the minimum observed
BW among the compared algorithms on a given benchmark. For the external
20

sparse comparison, relative excess over IPSNS records the mean percentage
by which a method’s BW exceeds IPSNS on completed instances. For the
exact small-instance study, the mean gap from the certiﬁed optimum and the
number of optimal matches summarize how close each heuristic comes to exact optimization. Mean runtime is reported for practical context, although
it is not normalized across machines. The dense complete-ordering study
also reports forward ratio as a secondary descriptive measure of how much
pairwise weight is oriented forward by the returned ranking. Finally, the
incumbent-violation count records how often IPSNS would return a solution
worse than LR-TA or WMSF; under the intended invariant this count should
remain zero on the nonnegative setting. To supplement tabular comparisons,
paired statistical tests are computed on the common completed instances of
the external sparse comparison, using per-instance backward weight as the
outcome unit. The Wilcoxon signed-rank test and sign test characterize the
distribution of per-instance paired diﬀerences; they are reported as distributional evidence for the observed outcome asymmetry and do not replace
exact optimality certiﬁcates. A supplementary budget experiment (EXP6)
runs IPSNS at six iteration budgets (10, 25, 50, 100, 200, and 400) on a
20-instance representative sparse subset to characterize how solution quality
varies with the iteration budget relative to runtime cost. A generic localsearch comparison (EXP7) tests whether adjacent-swap or single-vertex insertion local search seeded from LR-TA can replicate IPSNS quality on the
same representative subset. A time-capped MIP baseline (EXP8) was also
run on a deterministic 15-instance medium sparse subset (n ≤ 318, 120 s
per instance) to compare IPSNS with solver-certiﬁed optima where the MIP
proves optimal.
5.4. Implementation and reproducibility
All reported numbers are taken from saved experimental summaries and
regenerated paper assets. Tables and ﬁgures in the results section are produced from the recorded JSON, CSV, and Markdown outputs of the ﬁve
computational components, with key reported numbers checked against their
source ﬁles before inclusion.
The experimental runs use ﬁxed seeds where randomness exists and consistent wrappers for the compared methods. For IPSNS, the saved summaries
record the default full WMSF seed mode and the iteration budgets used in
each study. The ablation study is especially important here because it justiﬁes those defaults conservatively: on the 10-instance subset, the mean BW for
21

50 iterations is identical to the 200-iteration mean, and the no-SCC-priority
variant is nearly identical to the default. Those results are interpreted as
subset-level support for reasonable defaults, not as universal parameter optimality.
Negative-weight sparse instances are excluded from the standard claimbearing benchmark because they do not match the nonnegative setting studied here. DRMacIver/FAS incompletions on the sparse benchmark are reported explicitly rather than hidden in ﬁltered tables. The dense LOLIB
transfer test is retained even though it narrows the claim surface, because
it documents where the framework remains competitive and where dense
complete ordering instances favor a specialized external method.
The review version is prepared under double-anonymized constraints, so
code-availability language remains anonymized in the declarations. That
packaging choice does not aﬀect the experimental evidence summarized here.
6. Computational results
The computational evidence should be read in the same order as the experimental design. The paper ﬁrst establishes the main sparse-benchmark
result, then checks exact small-instance quality, then uses ablations to interpret the engineering choices, and ﬁnally tests transfer to dense LOLIB
instances. This ordering matters because the positive claim is intentionally
narrow: IPSNS is presented as a strong, reproducible heuristic framework for
nonnegative sparse weighted directed graphs, not as a universal best method
for every ordering benchmark.
6.1. Sparse weighted graph benchmarks
The primary result comes from the standard nonnegative sparse benchmark, with the full internal benchmark supplying the safety check for the
reﬁnement stage. Table 4 summarizes the main comparison on 97 instances,
and Figures 2 and 3 visualize the gap structure and the distribution of instance wins.
The main outcome is clear on this benchmark. IPSNS achieves the lowest
observed backward weight among the tested methods on 96 of the 97 standard instances. Its mean BW is 37,698, compared with 38,327 for LR-TA
and 40,005 for WMSF. Among the external methods, DRMacIver/FAS is the
strongest comparator, but its mean BW is still 53,173 on the completed standard instances, or about 21.61% above IPSNS. DRMacIver/FAS completes
22

Table 4: Comparison on the 97 standard nonnegative sparse instances. BW denotes
backward weight; lower values are better. Relative excess is the mean percentage by
which an algorithm’s BW exceeds IPSNS on completed instances.

Method
IPSNS (ours)
LR-TA (ours)
WMSF seed
DRMacIver/FAS
igraph Eades
Weighted Eades
Borda net score
Random multistart

Complete

Mean BW

Mean RT (s)

Best

Relative excess

97/97
97/97
97/97
93/97
97/97
97/97
97/97
97/97

37,698
38,327
40,005
53,173
95,920
99,689
512,277
1,075,258

21.92
0.08
1.31
4.00
0.01
0.11
0.00
0.03

96
80
61
56
40
42
27
42

0.00%
0.71%
2.06%
21.61%
30.54%
30.48%
55.55%
49.76%

93 of 97 instances; the remaining four cases are two DAG inputs rejected
by the wrapper and two large sparse instances that time out in the wrapper
used here. Sparse-comparison averages for DRMacIver/FAS are computed
on completed runs only; incompletions are reported separately and are not
hidden. The remaining baselines are substantially weaker on average, with
the Eades variants about 30% higher than IPSNS and the simpler Borda and
random baselines far behind.
This result addresses baseline strength directly. The sparse-benchmark
claim is not based only on a comparison among internal variants. It survives
contact with a strong external comparator, a widely available graph-library
heuristic, and several simple but informative ranking baselines. The most
important external comparison is DRMacIver/FAS, not because it wins the
benchmark, but because it remains competitive on much of the sparse set
despite being a matrix-based pairwise-ordering heuristic rather than a sparsedigraph-native method. Even there, the gap is small only on one instance:
r20_60, where DRMacIver/FAS beats IPSNS by 3 BW units. That same
instance is also the only IPSNS near-miss in the exact-validation study below,
which makes the sparse story internally consistent rather than contradictory.
Paired statistical tests on the 101 instances completed by both IPSNS and
DRMacIver/FAS show that the per-instance backward-weight diﬀerences favor IPSNS asymmetrically: IPSNS achieves a strictly lower backward weight
on 37 instances, ties on 56, and is exceeded on 8. Both the Wilcoxon signedrank test and the sign test yield p < 0.001, indicating that the observed win–
loss asymmetry is unlikely under a null distribution of symmetric per-instance
23

outcomes. These tests provide distributional support for the benchmark differences; they do not certify optimality. On the full 105-instance internal set,
IPSNS never loses to LR-TA (16 wins, 89 ties, zero losses) and never loses to
WMSF (36 wins, 69 ties, zero losses), consistent with the non-degradation
invariant. Table 5 summarizes the paired outcomes for all comparisons.
Table 5: Paired statistical tests comparing IPSNS against each baseline on common completed instances of the standard sparse benchmark. Improvement is the per-instance reduction in backward weight achieved by IPSNS (positive values indicate IPSNS attains
a lower backward weight). The Wilcoxon signed-rank test and sign test are two-sided
and provide distributional support for the observed diﬀerences; they do not replace exact
optimality certiﬁcates.
Comparison
IPSNS vs LR-TA
IPSNS vs WMSF
IPSNS vs DRMacIver/FAS
IPSNS vs igraph Eades
IPSNS vs Weighted Eades

n

W

T

L

Med. ∆BW

p (Wilcoxon / Sign)

105
105
101
105
97

16
36
37
59
55

89
69
56
41
42

0
0
8
5
0

0
0
0
92
859

<0.001 / <0.001
<0.001 / <0.001
<0.001 / <0.001
<0.001 / <0.001
<0.001 / <0.001

W = wins (IPSNS lower BW), T = ties, L = losses. Med. ∆BW is the per-instance
median improvement in backward-weight units. DRMacIver/FAS has 101 paired instances (four sparse incompletions excluded). IPSNS never loses to LR-TA or WMSF
(zero losses), consistent with the non-degradation invariant.

The full internal benchmark strengthens this interpretation by showing
that the reﬁnement stage does not obtain these gains by occasionally damaging its seeds. Across 105 sparse benchmark instances, IPSNS is never worse
than LR-TA and never worse than WMSF, with zero incumbent-protection
violations in the veriﬁed summary. It strictly improves over LR-TA on 16
instances and over WMSF on 36 instances. The mean runtime per instance
rises from 0.074 seconds for LR-TA and 1.24 seconds for WMSF to about
20.2 seconds for IPSNS, so the gain is not free; however, it is gained without giving up the best internal seed. That property connects the empirical
behavior back to the monotone non-degradation invariant in Section 4.
The runtime pattern also clariﬁes the engineering tradeoﬀ. LR-TA is
the fastest strong method in the study: its mean sparse-benchmark runtime
is only 0.08 seconds per instance, yet its mean BW is within about 1.7%
of IPSNS. That makes LR-TA a credible low-latency choice when reﬁnement
time is limited. IPSNS then occupies the higher-quality point on the tradeoﬀ
curve, paying more runtime to secure the best observed solutions on almost
24

every instance. The study therefore provides a fast seed heuristic, a stronger
reﬁnement framework, and a clear statement of what the extra computation
buys.
A supplementary budget study (EXP6) tests how IPSNS quality varies
with the iteration budget on a 20-instance representative sparse subset (instances with EXP4 IPSNS runtime exceeding 60 s or fewer than 10 vertices
excluded). Across six budgets from 10 to 400 iterations, the mean backward
weight on this subset is identical (84,614 BW units) and no losses to LR-TA
occur at any budget. The improvement over LR-TA is concentrated on 7
of the 20 instances and is secured within the ﬁrst 10 iterations; additional
budget does not change the outcome on this subset. Runtime scales approximately linearly: mean per-instance time rises from 0.28 s at 10 iterations to
4.40 s at 400 iterations. Table 6 and Figure 4 summarize these results.
Table 6: IPSNS quality-vs-runtime tradeoﬀ across iteration budgets on a 20-instance representative sparse subset (EXP6). Mean backward weight (BW), mean runtime per instance,
and win/tie/loss counts versus LR-TA from EXP4 are shown for each budget. Rel. excess
is the mean percentage by which that budget’s BW exceeds the 400-iteration result on the
same subset; lower is better. LR-TA (from EXP4) is included as the low-latency reference.
Algorithm (budget)

Mean BW

Mean RT (s)

W / T / L vs LR-TA

Rel. excess vs 400-iter

LR-TA (seed only)
IPSNS (10 iters)
IPSNS (25 iters)
IPSNS (50 iters)
IPSNS (100 iters)
IPSNS (200 iters)
IPSNS (400 iters)

87,365
84,614
84,614
84,614
84,614
84,614
84,614

0.035
0.275
0.425
0.698
1.222
2.286
4.398

—/—/—
7 / 13 / 0
7 / 13 / 0
7 / 13 / 0
7 / 13 / 0
7 / 13 / 0
7 / 13 / 0

—
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%
0.00%

Subset: 20 representative sparse instances with EXP4 IPSNS runtime ≤ 60 s and n ≥ 10,
spanning density from very sparse to moderately dense. W = wins (IPSNS lower BW
than LR-TA), T = ties, L = losses (none observed). Rel. excess: mean percentage above
the 400-iteration result on the same instance set.

EXP7 asks whether IPSNS improvements over LR-TA can be matched
by simpler order-local improvement heuristics. On the 18 non-negative instances of the representative subset, adjacent-swap local search (accepting
any adjacent pair swap that reduces backward weight) ﬁnds no improvements: LR-TA already constitutes an adjacent-swap local optimum on every
instance. Single-vertex insertion local search (ﬁnding the globally best position for each vertex in turn) improves over LR-TA on 4 instances and achieves
mean backward weight 95,779, but it still loses to IPSNS on 5 instances, all
25

large sparse graphs (n ≥ 1,000). Using the better of LR-TA and WMSF
as the insertion seed narrows the gap slightly (mean BW 95,617) but leaves
3 losses to IPSNS. The instances where insertion LS falls short overlap directly with the highest-gain IPSNS instances in EXP4. Table 7 reports the
comparison.
Table 7: Generic order-local improvement versus IPSNS on the 18 non-negative instances
of the EXP7 representative sparse subset (peterson1 and peterson2 are excluded due to
negative arc weights). Adj-swap LS and insertion LS are seeded from LR-TA; best-seed
insertion LS uses the better of LR-TA and WMSF as the starting point. W / T / L counts
are against the 400-iteration IPSNS result from EXP4.
Method
LR-TA (seed)
IPSNS (EXP4 full)
Adj-swap LS from LR-TA
Insertion LS from LR-TA
Insertion LS from best seed

Mean BW

Mean RT (s)

W / T / L vs LR-TA

W / T / L vs IPSNS

97,185
94,127
97,185
95,779
95,617

—
—
0.026
0.234
0.383

—
—
0 / 18 / 0
4 / 14 / 0
7 / 11 / 0

—
—
0 / 11 / 7
1 / 12 / 5
1 / 14 / 3

Adj-swap LS stops at local optimum (max 20 passes); insertion LS stops at local
optimum, 200 accepted moves, or 60 s per instance. Both seeded methods ran from
LR-TA for comparability with IPSNS’s starting seed. Negative-weight instances
(peterson1, peterson2) are excluded from this table.

The sparse results cover a broad but intentionally scoped benchmark.
The comparison uses 97 standard nonnegative sparse instances after exclusions and includes eight algorithms in total. The claim remains limited to
this setting and does not extend to negative-weight cases or dense complete
ordering benchmarks.
6.2. Exact validation and ablation evidence
The exact small-instance validation and the ablation study serve diﬀerent purposes, but together they explain why the framework is both credible
and interpretable. Table 8 reports the exact validation results, and Table 9
reports the component ablation.
The exact small-instance study supports a quality-validation narrative
rather than a theoretical one. On the 57 standard nonnegative instances
with n ≤ 20 included in the dynamic-programming study, IPSNS matches
the certiﬁed optimum on 56 instances and has a mean gap of 0.0006% from
the exact optimum. LR-TA matches the optimum on 55 instances with
mean gap 0.0590%, and WMSF matches the optimum on 51 with mean gap
0.0961%. These numbers show that the framework is not merely competitive
26

Table 8: Exact validation on the 57 standard nonnegative instances with n ≤ 20 included
in the dynamic-programming study. Mean gap is measured against the certiﬁed optimum
on each instance.

Method

Optimal Optimality rate

IPSNS (ours)
LR-TA (ours)
WMSF seed

56/57
55/57
51/57

98.2%
96.5%
89.5%

Mean gap
0.0006%
0.0590%
0.0961%

Table 9: Ablation study on 10 representative sparse instances. Relative change is measured
against LR-TA; negative percentages indicate improvement.

Variant
LR without add-back
LR-TA
WMSF seed
Best seed, no reﬁnement
IPSNS, 50 iterations
IPSNS, 200 iterations
IPSNS, no SCC priority

Mean BW
4525.1
4271.5
4332.5
4271.5
4239.2
4239.2
4239.1

Relative change Mean RT (s)
+5.94%
+0.00%
+1.43%
+0.00%
-0.76%
-0.76%
-0.76%

0.017
0.047
0.040
0.069
0.778
5.734
5.727

in relative benchmark terms; on the exact-validation subset, it is essentially
exact in practice.
This table does not provide an approximation guarantee, a worst-case
bound, or a proof of global behavior beyond the validated subset. The correct
statement is that IPSNS is empirically near-optimal on the exact-validation
subset. The only IPSNS near-miss is instance r20_60.
The exact-validation result also helps interpret the single sparsebenchmark loss to DRMacIver/FAS. The only IPSNS near-miss is again
r20_60. This is also the only standard small instance where IPSNS fails to
match exact optimum. That consistency reduces the chance that the sparse
comparison is driven by unstable reporting or artifact mismatch. Instead,
it suggests a small, structurally diﬃcult case where the framework is near
optimum but not uniquely dominant.
A supplementary time-capped MIP baseline (EXP8) extends this exactvalidation evidence to medium sparse instances where bitmask dynamic programming is no longer feasible. On 15 selected instances with n ≤ 318 and
27

Table 10: Time-capped MIP baseline (EXP8) on 15 selected medium sparse instances (n ≤
318, 120 s time limit per instance). The solver certiﬁes optimal solutions on 7 instances; the
remaining 8 exceed the time limit and yield no MIP incumbent. IPSNS gap is measured
against the solver-certiﬁed optimum on the 7 proven-optimal instances only.

Metric

Value

Instances selected
15
Proven optimal (MIP solved)
7
Time-limited (no incumbent)
8
Time limit
120 s
IPSNS matches MIP optimum
6/7
IPSNS mean gap (proven-optimal) 0.025%
IPSNS max gap (proven-optimal) 0.178%
a 120 s per-instance time limit, the HiGHS solver certiﬁes optimal solutions
for 7 instances; the remaining 8 exceed the time limit and yield no MIP incumbent. On the 7 proven-optimal instances, IPSNS matches the certiﬁed
optimum on 6; the single exception is again r20_60, where IPSNS is 0.178%
above the MIP optimum. The 8 time-limited cases provide no gap certiﬁcation and are treated as incomplete solver evidence only. Table 10 summarizes
the aggregate outcomes.
The ablation study explains where the framework’s gains come from. The
add-back phase is the dominant contributor among the tested design choices.
Removing it raises mean BW from 4,271.5 for LR-TA to 4,525.1 for the noadd-back variant, a degradation of about 5.94%. This is the clearest experimental support for treating topological add-back as a substantive engineering
contribution rather than a decorative post-processing step.
The reﬁnement stage then provides a smaller but still measurable gain.
Moving from LR-TA to IPSNS with 50 iterations reduces mean BW from
4,271.5 to 4,239.2, about 0.76%. In absolute terms that gain is much smaller
than the add-back gain, but it is still meaningful because it is obtained
after starting from a strong seed and while preserving the non-degradation
invariant. This is the kind of marginal improvement one expects from a
bounded reﬁnement layer: it does not re-invent the seed; it improves the
hard residue that remains after seeding.
The ablation results also provide the main evidence for parameter justiﬁcation, and the interpretation must remain conservative. On this 10-instance
28

Table 11: Dense LOLIB transfer test on 50 complete weighted ordering instances. Lower
BW is better.
Method

Mean BW

Best

Mean RT (s)

DRMacIver/FAS
IPSNS (ours)
LR-TA (ours)
WMSF seed
igraph Eades
Weighted Eades
Random multistart
Borda net score

571,687
582,354
582,948
585,926
659,570
675,235
883,664
1,066,045

45/50
5/50
2/50
1/50
0/50
0/50
0/50
0/50

1.01
37.92
0.22
0.19
0.01
0.01
0.02
0.00

Family breakdown for IPSNS and DRMacIver/FAS
Family
IPSNS best DRMacIver/FAS best
SGB
1/25
24/25
IO
4/10
6/10
RandA1
0/15
15/15

Mean BW (IPSNS / DRMacIver/FAS)
1,048,056 / 1,036,085
36,996 / 32,860
169,755 / 156,909

subset, the add-back phase accounts for the largest mean improvement (about
5.9%), while IPSNS contributes a further 0.75%. The 50-iteration and 200iteration IPSNS variants have the same mean BW, which suggests that the
default budget is already beyond the point of visible average improvement
on these instances. Likewise, removing SCC priority changes the mean only
from 4,239.2 to 4,239.1, eﬀectively negligible at the reported precision. These
observations support the default settings as reasonable choices, but they do
not show that those settings are universally optimal on other graph families
or scales.
6.3. Dense LOLIB transfer test
Table 11 and Figure 5 summarize the dense LOLIB transfer test.
This is the result that prevents overclaiming. On the 50 dense complete
ordering instances, DRMacIver/FAS is the best overall method in the study:
it wins 45 instances and achieves mean BW 571,687, compared with 582,354
for IPSNS. The mean gap is 3.88% in DRMacIver/FAS’s favor. IPSNS remains second overall and retains zero incumbent violations against LR-TA
and WMSF, but the dense benchmark does not support any claim of overall
dominance by the proposed framework.
The family breakdown explains why. DRMacIver/FAS wins 24 of the 25
SGB instances and all 15 RandA1 instances. IPSNS is more competitive on
IO, where it wins 4 of 10 against DRMacIver/FAS’s 6 of 10, but that does
not overturn the overall dense-ordering result. The cleanest interpretation
29

is structural: DRMacIver/FAS is a matrix-based pairwise-ordering heuristic
whose documented input model aligns with LOLIB’s complete weighted ordering format, whereas IPSNS is designed around sparse weighted-digraph
seeding and SCC-local reﬁnement. Dense complete ordering remains an active research area Fomin et al. (2010); Ostovari and Zarei (2024), and when
every ordered pair carries weight the advantage shifts toward methods specialized for matrix-based pairwise evidence.
This ﬁnding narrows the claim in a credible way. Retaining the dense
transfer study shows that the framework transfers nontrivially to a dense
benchmark, remains competitive on a structured IO subset, and still preserves the internal no-worsening invariant, but dense complete ordering is
not the framework’s strongest regime.
Across the section as a whole, the empirical message is coherent. The
strongest claim belongs to the sparse nonnegative benchmark, where IPSNS
attains the best observed backward weight among the tested methods on 96
of 97 standard instances and never returns a result worse than the better
internal seed. The exact-validation subset shows that the quality story is not
merely relative to heuristics, and the ablation study shows that the gains
are not coming from an uninterpretable black box. The dense transfer study
then marks the boundary of that success case. The framework is a strong
and reproducible method for the sparse weighted-digraph regime, and the
computational evidence shows how far that statement can be pushed.
7. Discussion
The computational evidence supports a clear but bounded interpretation of the proposed framework. The strongest result is the sparse nonnegative benchmark, where IPSNS achieves the lowest observed backward weight
among the tested methods on 96 of 97 standard instances and never degrades
the better internal seed. The importance of that result is not only that the
framework performs well, but that it performs well in a way that matches the
intended algorithmic design. The methodology combines two complementary
global constructions with a reﬁnement stage that concentrates eﬀort on the
cyclic parts of the graph and accepts a move only when the global objective improves. The sparse results therefore do not look accidental: they are
consistent with the structure that the method is designed to exploit.
The sparse benchmark interpretation begins with the role of the seed
methods. LR-TA and WMSF produce feasible orderings by diﬀerent mecha30

nisms. LR-TA is driven by local-ratio reductions and topological add-back,
whereas WMSF follows a removal-and-minimization template. On many
sparse instances those two constructions are already strong, and LR-TA in
particular oﬀers an excellent quality–runtime tradeoﬀ. IPSNS improves on
that base by focusing its neighborhood moves on strongly connected components that still contribute substantial backward weight under the incumbent
ordering. This is a natural strategy for sparse cyclic graphs. When the
graph contains large acyclic regions and a smaller cyclic core, indiscriminate
perturbation is wasteful; the search budget is better spent where ordering
ambiguity remains concentrated. The empirical advantage of IPSNS on the
sparse benchmark is therefore not simply that it runs longer than LR-TA. It
is that the extra computation is directed at the right structural target.
Structural diagnostics computed from the converted DIMACS instance
ﬁles conﬁrm this contrast quantitatively. The standard sparse benchmark instances have a mean directed-graph density of 0.354 and a mean of 72.7% of
vertices residing in nontrivial strongly connected components, with the SCC
structure distributed across multiple components on most instances. The
dense LOLIB instances, by contrast, have a mean density of 0.454 and essentially all vertices (98.7% on average) concentrated in a single large SCC,
which is consistent with the complete pairwise-ordering matrix structure. On
the sparse benchmark, the IPSNS advantage over DRMacIver/FAS is negatively correlated with instance density (Spearman r = −0.76, p < 0.001),
consistent with the expectation that matrix-based pairwise-ordering methods
become more competitive as graph density increases toward the completeordering regime. These diagnostics are consistent with the intended operating regime of IPSNS; they do not replace controlled structural experiments.
Table 12 summarizes the structural comparison.
The internal safety result is central to this interpretation. On the full
105-instance internal benchmark, IPSNS never returns a solution worse than
LR-TA or WMSF. That is more than a convenient side condition. In practical
decision-support or ordering pipelines, a reﬁnement stage that occasionally
damages a good seed is hard to trust, hard to tune, and diﬃcult to diagnose. The monotone non-degradation rule makes the framework traceable.
If reﬁnement ﬁnds no helpful move, the best seed is preserved. If reﬁnement
improves the incumbent, that improvement is directly visible in the ﬁnal
objective. For an engineering-oriented audience, this kind of operational reliability is often more useful than a loosely justiﬁed claim that a local search
method is “usually better.”
31

Table 12: Structural comparison between the standard sparse benchmark and the dense
LOLIB transfer benchmark. Density is m/n(n−1) for directed graphs. Largest-SCC fraction is the fraction of vertices belonging to the largest strongly connected component. All
statistics are computed from the converted DIMACS instance ﬁles used in the experiments.
Feature

Sparse benchmark

Dense LOLIB

103
802
1404
0.3535
0.6018
0.7271
10.3

50
94
5083
0.4542
0.9867
0.9867
1.0

Instances
Mean n (vertices)
Mean m (arcs)
Mean density
Mean largest-SCC frac.
Mean frac. in nontrivial SCCs
Mean nontrivial SCC count

Sparse benchmark uses the graph-benchmarks collection (standard 97-instance
nonnegative subset after exclusions). LOLIB dense benchmark uses 50 converted
DIMACS instances across three families (SGB, RandA1, IO). SCC features computed from converted DIMACS instance ﬁles.

The exact-validation subset strengthens the quality story without changing its theoretical status. IPSNS matches the certiﬁed optimum on 56 of 57
standard nonnegative instances in the validation subset and has a mean gap
of 0.0006%. That is strong evidence that the heuristic framework is solving
the small instances almost perfectly in practice. It is not, however, evidence
for a new approximation ratio or a new optimality guarantee beyond the validated subset. When exact optimization is feasible, the framework tracks the
optimum closely; when the instances become larger, the study relies on comparative benchmark evidence rather than on a theoretical claim it does not
possess. The medium MIP subset (EXP8) strengthens the exact-validation
evidence: where the solver proves optimal, IPSNS matches 6 of 7 certiﬁed
optima, while the 8 larger cases exceed the 120 s time limit and are treated
as incomplete solver evidence rather than IPSNS failures.
The ablation study helps clarify which parts of the framework are carrying the result. The topological add-back phase is the dominant design
element among the tested components, with a mean backward-weight reduction of about 5.9% relative to local-ratio without add-back. That is the
main reason LR-TA should be understood as an engineered instantiation
rather than as a thin wrapper around prior local-ratio ideas. The reﬁnement stage then contributes a smaller additional improvement, about 0.75%
on the ablation subset. Seed construction determines most of the ordering

32

quality; reﬁnement cleans up the remaining diﬃcult cases without sacriﬁcing
the incumbent. On the full 105-instance sparse set, IPSNS strictly improves
over LR-TA on 16 instances (mean improvement 581 BW units; median 0,
since most instances are already tied at the seed quality), conﬁrming that
the gains are concentrated on a harder subset rather than distributed uniformly; the runtime cost is the approximately 270-fold increase from LR-TA’s
0.08 s mean to IPSNS’s 21.9 s mean per instance. The supplementary budget study (EXP6) conﬁrms that quality saturates within the ﬁrst 10 SCClocal iterations; additional budget increases runtime proportionally without
changing the mean backward weight. The generic local-search comparison
(EXP7) reinforces this: adjacent-swap LS ﬁnds no improvements over LR-TA,
and single-vertex insertion LS recovers only a fraction of IPSNS’s advantage
on the largest instances, conﬁrming that SCC-local destroy-repair addresses
cyclic sub-structure that sequential order-local moves do not systematically
reach. The near-equality between 50 and 200 IPSNS iterations supports the
default budget as a reasonable and stable choice on the tested subset, though
not a universally optimal default for all graph families.
The dense LOLIB transfer test is the key scope boundary. On that benchmark, DRMacIver/FAS is stronger overall, winning 45 of 50 instances and
outperforming IPSNS in mean backward weight. This result is part of the
scientiﬁc contribution because it shows where the framework stops being the
most competitive option among the methods tested. The structural explanation is straightforward. DRMacIver/FAS is a deterministic matrix-based
pairwise-ordering heuristic, and LOLIB supplies dense complete ordering instances where every ordered pair contributes information. IPSNS, by contrast, is built around sparse weighted-digraph seeding and SCC-local reﬁnement. Recent dense-ordering feedback arc set methods Fomin et al. (2010);
Ostovari and Zarei (2024) reinforce that complete weighted ordering is a
distinct algorithmic regime rather than a mere scale change from sparse digraphs. When the graph is fully dense, the distinction between cyclic core
and acyclic background becomes much less informative, and the advantage
shifts toward methods specialized for matrix-based pairwise evidence.
At the same time, the dense result should not be overinterpreted in the
opposite direction. IPSNS remains second overall on LOLIB, preserves its
non-degradation property, and is competitive on the IO family, where it
wins 4 of 10 instances. Dense complete ordering is not the paper’s primary
target, and a matrix-based pairwise-ordering heuristic is preferable there.
Identifying where the methodology is strong, where it is merely competitive,
33

and where a diﬀerent structural assumption favors another class of methods
improves the credibility of the overall claim.
Several limitations remain and should be stated directly. First, the paper
does not oﬀer a new approximation guarantee. The local-ratio principle used
in LR-TA is prior art, and the present contribution is an engineered reproducible instantiation plus the incumbent-protected SCC reﬁnement framework. Second, the main claims apply only to nonnegative-weight instances.
Negative-weight sparse instances are excluded from the standard analysis because they do not match the intended setting of the framework and would
blur the meaning of the reported invariant. Third, the exact-validation study
is limited to small instances where bitmask dynamic programming is feasible.
It supports the quality narrative but does not remove the need for heuristic benchmarking on larger graphs. Fourth, dense linear-ordering instances
are not the primary target, and the LOLIB results show that clearly. Fifth,
the review version of the paper is anonymized, so data and code availability
must be described in double-blind form until the submission process allows
a public release.
These limitations also help identify the practical implications. The paper is best read as a contribution to weighted ordering and cyclic-dependency
repair in graph-based decision-support settings. Many engineering and operations workﬂows contain precedence conﬂicts, pairwise preference information,
or cyclic dependencies that must be resolved into an ordering without claiming that every arc or relation can be simultaneously respected. In such settings, a methodology that starts from strong fast seeds, improves only when
the objective truly decreases, and remains reproducible under ﬁxed seeds
and explicit tie handling can be more valuable than a theoretically stronger
method that is harder to deploy or interpret. The sparse benchmark results
suggest that the framework is well suited to that style of application: graphs
are large enough to make exact optimization impractical, sparse enough that
SCC-local reﬁnement remains meaningful, and structured enough that the
combination of LR-TA, WMSF, and IPSNS improves over simpler ranking
heuristics.
Future work should follow from those boundaries rather than ignore
them. One direction is richer parameter tuning, especially to understand
when longer reﬁnement budgets or alternative SCC-selection rules materially
improve sparse instances beyond the current defaults. Another is broader
evaluation on ranking and application-facing datasets that better expose domain structure than generic benchmarks alone. A third is exact or ILP-based
34

polishing on medium-sized instances if solver setup becomes available in a
later study. That would not replace the present heuristic contribution, but it
could sharpen the quality reference point between the small exact-validation
regime and the large sparse benchmark regime. A fourth is broader study of
negative-weight or mixed-sign settings under a formulation that preserves a
clean interpretation of the objective and the reﬁnement invariant.
Overall, the study is strongest when it remains faithful to its empirical boundaries. It presents a reproducible methodology for the minimum
weighted feedback arc set problem in nonnegative weighted directed graphs,
demonstrates clear strength on the main sparse benchmark, and documents
where a diﬀerent structural regime favors a diﬀerent algorithmic family.
8. Conclusions
This paper studied the minimum weighted feedback arc set problem
through its ordering interpretation on nonnegative weighted directed graphs.
The main contribution is not a new approximation framework, but a reproducible computational methodology that combines an engineered local-ratio
construction with topological add-back, a complementary weighted seed, and
an incumbent-protected SCC-local reﬁnement stage. Within that design, LRTA serves as a strong constructive seed, while IPSNS is the main reﬁnement
framework that improves the incumbent only when the global backwardweight objective decreases.
The computational evidence supports a clear scope-bounded conclusion.
On the standard nonnegative sparse benchmark, IPSNS attains the best observed backward weight among the tested methods on 96 of 97 instances
and improves on all tested internal and external comparators, including the
strongest external baseline. On the full internal benchmark, the reﬁnement
stage never worsens the better internal seed, which conﬁrms the intended
non-degradation behavior in practice.
The exact-validation subset shows that the framework is near-optimal
when bitmask dynamic programming certiﬁes optima. The ablation study
shows that the topological add-back phase is the dominant design element,
with SCC-local reﬁnement providing an additional but smaller gain.
The results also deﬁne an important boundary. On dense complete
LOLIB ordering instances, the matrix-based pairwise-ordering baseline DRMacIver/FAS is stronger overall. This does not negate the sparse-benchmark
contribution; it clariﬁes it. The proposed framework is strongest in the sparse
35

nonnegative weighted-digraph regime for which it was designed. It should
be interpreted as a general weighted-digraph heuristic rather than as a
dense-native linear-ordering solver.
The practical value of the framework lies in this combination of quality, structural focus, and reproducibility. The methodology is suitable for
weighted ordering and cyclic-dependency repair settings where exact optimization is too expensive, sparse graph structure is meaningful, and reﬁnement should not be allowed to damage a good seed. Within the stated
boundaries, engineered local-ratio seeding plus incumbent-protected SCC reﬁnement is an eﬀective strategy for sparse weighted directed ordering problems.
Two immediate directions follow from this evidence. The ﬁrst is
broader evaluation on additional sparse weighted digraph families, especially
application-derived instances with richer edge-weight semantics. The second
is methodological: the same incumbent-protected reﬁnement discipline could
be combined with stronger dense-ordering seeds or exact large-neighborhood
subroutines without changing the basic non-degradation philosophy that
motivated the present framework.

36

Aggregated weighted
directed graph

LR-TA seed
cycle reduction
+ add-back

WMSF-style seed
remove–minimize
–stabilize
Best internal seed
by backward weight

SCC scoring and
top-K selection
restore

Destroy move
reactivate heavy removed
remove light active

Repair move
restricted local-ratio
+ restricted add-back
Accept only if
backward weight improves

Final incumbent
ordering
Figure 1: Conceptual overview of the integrated framework. Two constructive seeds are
evaluated ﬁrst; IPSNS then applies incumbent-protected SCC-local destroy-and-repair
moves to the better seed only when they improve the global objective.

37

Algorithm 2 IPSNS with incumbent protection
Require: Weighted digraph G = (V, A, w), iteration budget T
Ensure: Ordering π ⋆ with objective no worse than the best internal seed
1: Build WMSF-style seed πW and LR-TA seed πLR
2: π ⋆ ← arg min{bw(πW ), bw(πLR )}
3: for t = 1, . . . , T do
4:
Score each nontrivial SCC by its current backward contribution
5:
if all SCC scores are zero then
6:
break
7:
end if
8:
Sample one SCC from the top-K positive-score SCCs using weighted
random choice
9:
Save the current internal SCC state
10:
Reactivate a heavy fraction of removed internal edges
11:
Remove a light fraction of active internal edges
12:
Apply SCC-restricted local-ratio repair
13:
Apply SCC-restricted heavy-ﬁrst add-back minimization
14:
if the candidate SCC state is invalid then
15:
restore saved SCC state; continue
16:
end if
17:
Recompute the global ordering and candidate objective
18:
if the candidate objective is smaller than bw(π ⋆ ) then
19:
accept the candidate and update π ⋆
20:
else
21:
restore the previous incumbent exactly
22:
end if
23: end for
24: return π ⋆

38

Mean BW excess over IPSNS (%)

50
40
30
20
10
0

)

urs

(o
NS
IPS

)
urs

(o
TA
LR-

F
MS

d
see

W

ver

aci
RM

D

ade

E
aph

igr

s
h

ig
We

s

e
cor

ade

E
ted

da
Bor

sta

lti
mu
m
o
nd

s
net

rt

Ra

Number of global-best instances

Figure 2: Mean backward-weight excess over IPSNS on the 97 standard nonnegative sparse
instances. Lower is better; IPSNS is the reference at zero.

100
80
60
40
20
0

S
PSN

I

rs)

(ou

)
urs

(o
TA
LR-

F se

S
WM

ed

ver

ci
Ma
DR

ig

h
rap

es

Ead

i
We

ed
ght

es

Ead

d
Bor

et
an

re

sco

rt

sta

lti
mu
m
ndo

Ra

Figure 3: Number of instances on which each method attains the lowest observed backward
weight on the primary sparse benchmark.

39

IPSNS
LR-TA (seed)

88,000
86,000
84,000
82,000
80,000

1025 50

100

200

IPSNS iterations

400

Mean rel. excess vs 400-iter (\%)

Mean backward weight

Quality vs iterations

Quality saturation
0.04
0.02
0.00
0.02
0.04
1025 50

100

200

IPSNS iterations

400

Figure 4: IPSNS quality and saturation on the 20-instance representative sparse subset
(EXP6). Left: mean backward weight versus iteration budget; LR-TA (dashed) is the
low-latency reference. Right: mean relative excess above the 400-iteration result; zero at
all tested budgets indicates complete quality saturation from the ﬁrst budget tested on
this subset.

Global-best instances

25

IPSNS
DRMaciver

20
15
10
5
0

SGB

IO

RandA1

Figure 5: Global-best counts by LOLIB family for IPSNS and DRMacIver/FAS.

40

CRediT authorship contribution statement
Author details are omitted from the review manuscript for doubleanonymized submission. A complete CRediT statement will be provided in
the separate title page and submission metadata.
Funding statement
This research did not receive external funding.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnancial interests or personal relationships that could have inﬂuenced the work reported
in this paper.
Data and code availability
An anonymized reproducibility artifact containing the implementation,
experiment scripts, selected instance lists, conversion utilities, and postprocessed result tables is provided as supplementary material for review Anonymous (2026). The benchmark instances used in the study are publicly available from the sources cited in the manuscript; the artifact includes scripts
and metadata needed to obtain and convert them. A public repository and
archival DOI will be released upon acceptance.
Declaration of generative AI and AI-assisted technologies in the
manuscript preparation process
During the preparation of this work, the authors used AI-assisted tools,
including ChatGPT, Codex, Claude, and Perplexity AI, to support literature exploration, organization of experimental material, and language editing.
The authors reviewed and edited all generated content, veriﬁed the relevant
sources and experimental results, and take full responsibility for the content
of the submitted manuscript.

41

References
Ailon, N., Charikar, M., Newman, A., 2008. Aggregating inconsistent information: Ranking and clustering. Journal of the ACM 55, 23:1–23:27.
doi:10.1145/1411509.1411513.
Ali Dasdan, 2026. graph-benchmarks: Directed graph benchmarks in dimacs
graph format.
https://github.com/alidasdan/graph-benchmarks.
Dataset repository; accessed 2026-06-06.
Alon, N., Lokshtanov, D., Saurabh, S., 2009. Fast FAST, in: Automata,
Languages and Programming, Springer Berlin Heidelberg. pp. 49–58.
Anonymous, 2026. Anonymous reproducibility artifact for this submission.
Submitted as supplementary material for double-anonymized review.
Baharev, A., Schichl, H., Neumaier, A., Achterberg, T., 2021. An exact
method for the minimum feedback arc set problem. ACM Journal of Experimental Algorithmics 26, 1.4:1–1.4:28. doi:10.1145/3446429.
Bar-Yehuda, R., Geiger, D., Naor, J.S., Roth, R.M., 1998. Approximation
algorithms for the feedback vertex set problem with applications to constraint satisfaction and bayesian inference. SIAM Journal on Computing
27, 942–959. doi:10.1137/S0097539796305109.
Carlos Segura, 2026. Lop_ma-edm: Memetic algorithms with explicit diversity management for the linear ordering problem. https://github.com/
carlossegurag/LOP_MA-EDM. Software repository; accessed 2026-06-06.
Cavallaro, C., Cutello, V., 2025. An eﬃcient heuristic algorithm to compute
minimal and stable weighted feedback arc sets, in: Proceedings of the International Conference on Software Engineering and Knowledge Engineering
(SEKE), pp. 84–87. doi:10.18293/SEKE2025-049.
Coppersmith, D., Fleischer, L.K., Rurda, A., 2010. Ordering by weighted
number of wins gives a good ranking for weighted tournaments. ACM
Transactions on Algorithms 6, 55:1–55:13. doi:10.1145/1798596.1798608.
Demetrescu, C., Finocchi, I., 2003. Combinatorial algorithms for feedback
problems in directed graphs. Information Processing Letters 86, 129–136.
doi:10.1016/S0020-0190(02)00491-X.
42

DRMacIver, 2026. Feedback-arc-set. https://github.com/DRMacIver/
Feedback-Arc-Set.
Software repository;
experiment commit
16ﬀ24a92fde886e58819180a9fe686e60991c5c; accessed 2026-06-06.
Eades, P., Lin, X., 1995. A heuristic for the feedback arc set problem. Australasian Journal of Combinatorics 12, 15–25.
Eades, P., Lin, X., Smyth, W.F., 1993. A fast and eﬀective heuristic for
the feedback arc set problem. Information Processing Letters 47, 319–323.
doi:10.1016/0020-0190(93)90079-O.
Even, G., Naor, J.S., Schieber, B., Sudan, M., 1998. Approximating minimum feedback sets and multicuts in directed graphs. Algorithmica 20,
151–174. doi:10.1007/PL00009191.
Flood, M.M., 1990. Exact and heuristic algorithms for the weighted feedback
arc set problem: A special case of the skew-symmetric quadratic assignment problem. Networks 20, 1–23. doi:10.1002/net.3230200102.
Fomin, F.V., Lokshtanov, D., Raman, V., Saurabh, S., 2010. Fast local search
algorithm for weighted feedback arc set in tournaments. Proceedings of
the AAAI Conference on Artiﬁcial Intelligence 24, 65–70. doi:10.1609/
aaai.v24i1.7557.
He, Y., Gan, Q., Wipf, D., Reinert, G.D., Yan, J., Cucuringu, M., 2022. Gnnrank: Learning global rankings from pairwise comparisons via directed
graph neural networks, in: Proceedings of the 39th International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 8581–8612. URL: https://proceedings.
mlr.press/v162/he22b.html.
Hecht, M., Gonciarz, K., Horvát, S., 2021. Tight localizations of feedback
sets. ACM Journal of Experimental Algorithmics 26, 1.3:1–1.3:19. doi:10.
1145/3447652.
Karp, R.M., 1972. Reducibility among combinatorial problems, in: Complexity of Computer Computations. Springer US, Boston, MA, pp. 85–103.
doi:10.1007/978-1-4684-2001-2_9.
Lempel, A., Cederbaum, I., 1966. Minimum feedback arc and vertex sets
of a directed graph. IEEE Transactions on Circuit Theory 13, 399–403.
doi:10.1109/TCT.1966.1082620.
43

Marti, R., 2010. Lolib: Linear ordering problem library. https://www.uv.
es/~rmarti/paper/lop.html. Oﬃcial library page; accessed 2026-06-06.
Marti, R., Reinelt, G., Duarte, A., 2012. A benchmark library and a
comparison of heuristic methods for the linear ordering problem. Computational Optimization and Applications 51, 1297–1317. doi:10.1007/
s10589-010-9384-9.
Ostovari, M., Zarei, A., 2024. A better LP rounding for feedback arc set on
tournaments. Theoretical Computer Science 1015, 114768. doi:10.1016/
j.tcs.2024.114768.
python-igraph developers, 2026.
python-igraph documentation:
Graph.feedback_arc_set.
https://python.igraph.org/en/stable/
api/igraph.Graph.html. Documentation for the weighted feedback arc
set API; accessed 2026-06-06.
Simpson, M., Srinivasan, V., Thomo, A., 2016. Eﬃcient computation of
feedback arc set at web-scale. Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment 10,
133–144. doi:10.14778/3021924.3021930.

44

